**HIV BCR Analysis**  

This project set out to calculate and visualize B cell receptor variable segment somatic hypermutation frequencies for IgM, IgD, IgG,IgA and IgE antibody isotypes from subjects in a HIV cohort [PMID: 31959979/PMCID: PMC7223457]. Highlighting and comparing key B cell receptor repertoire differences between HIV negative, producers of broadly neutralizing antibodies (BNab) and non-broadly neutralizing antibody (noNab) producing participants. 

**Code**  
The code folder contains two files, a python script, and an R script. The python script collapses each B cell reads to the subject level and each subject’s mutation level is calculated as an average of all the subject’s clonal lineage median mutation level. In addition, for each subject the 99th percentile of the most mutated IgM, IgD, IgG, IgA and IgE were also calculated. 

The R script visualizes the subject mutation file generated by the python script, highlighting the B cell repertoire differences in HIV negative, noNab, and BNab participants. 

**Figures**  
Folder contains subject mutation level frequency boxplot for all isotypes (naïve_a, IgG_a, IgA_and IgE_a). For each subject, the median mutation level for each clone was calculated, averaged, and represented by a dot. 
Figures naïve_b, IgG_b, IgA_b and IgE_b represents the Somatic hypermutation frequency of the 99th percentile for each isotype in each subject.

Some key findings from figures 1a and 1b where, BNab producing participants had significantly higher somatic hypermutation in class switched IgG antibodies (shown in figure IgG_a) compared to noNab participants. However, when comparing both infected groups with HIV negative participants, both groups had significantly lower SHM in IgG, this was more significant for noNab participants.

Notably, the most highly mutated fraction of IgG in BNab participants have higher somatic hypermutation frequencies compared to uninfected or noNabs participants (shown in figure IgG_b). 
